What Bible principles could help a couple to decide
whether to serve alcohol at their wedding?
What principles and scriptures do you think
would help them make a balanced decision?
Again, you're welcome to pause the program
and if you'd like to write down what comes to mind
or to research something.
Now, your list probably has some of these principles.
At John chapter 2 and verse 9, Jesus made wine for a wedding.
However, 1 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 10 says
that drunkards will not inherit the kingdom.
And 1 Corinthians 10, 31 and 32 says,
whether you're eating or drinking,
do all things for God's glory,
and to keep from becoming causes for stumbling.
Now, it doesn't seem that any one principle
provides the answer.
The couple could simply say,
if Jesus served wine at a wedding, so can we do?
However, there's really more to it than that, isn't there?
It's clear that a balance
of all these Bible principles is needed.
Will relatives or others be there
who might be prone to over drinking?
Would serving alcohol bother the conscience of many present
because of local customs and feelings about alcohol?
It's often the case when making decisions
that we need to balance several Bible principles
not taking any one principle solely on its own merit.
Jehovah expects us to use our power of reason
to balance Bible principles and make good decisions.
Ecclesiastes chapter 7 and verses 16 through 18
gives us good advice about being balanced.
Do not be overly righteous,
nor show yourself excessively wise.
Why should you bring ruin to yourself?
Do not be excessively wicked nor be foolish.
Why should you die before your time?
It is best to grasp one warning
without letting go of the other,
for the one who fears God will heed them both.
How true.
Such balance between extremes
is often necessary when we apply Bible principles.
We need to heed them both, so to speak.
We need to balance all the Bible principles
so we can come to the decision
that would show love of God and love of neighbor.